DRAFT: Arbitration Scope Amendments (#857)
makerdao/mips: MIP113/MIP113.md

      * N/A

    ¤¤¤
	
##### 3.4: Consitutional Conserver Fallbacks
If a Constitutional Conserver breaks the adherence requirements, but the Arbitration Facilitators fail to derecognize them, the following fallback process may be used.
* **3.4.1:** Any entity may send 10 MKR to the Pause Proxy contract, and publicly communicate their intention to derecognize an identified Constitutional Conserver.  

* **3.4.2:** The Arbitration Facilitators must initiate an MKR vote to derecognize the identified Constitutional Conserver if the requirements of *3.4.1* are met.

> 	* **3.4.2.1:** The vote format is plurality and must include the following three options: 'Yes', 'No, and burn stake' and 'No, and return stake').

Reviewer: I see what you're saying but

* "Yes" - 40%
* "No, and burn" - 35%
* "No, and return" - 25%

Results in "No, and burn"? Seems a bit weird

	* **3.4.2.2:** If the 'Yes' option wins by majority, the Constitutional Conserver is derecognized, and the 10 MKR is returned to the source address.
	* **3.4.2.3:** If the 'No, and return stake' option wins by plurality, the 10 MKR is returned to the source address.
	* **3.4.2.4:** Otherwise, the 10 MKR is not returned to the source address.

> #### 4: Constitutional Voter Committee management
> 
> ##### 4.1: Constitutional Voter Committee management definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 4: Constitutional Voter Committee Management

##### 4.1: Constitutional Voter Committee Definition
```

Constitutional Voter Committees are organized groups of Ecosystem Actors with publicly verified MKR ownership. Their role is to represent the interests of MKR holders and form opinions on the direction of Maker Governance, primarily through the modification of the Scope Frameworks in quarterly cycles.

> ##### 4.2: Constitutional Voter Committee Member recognition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### 4.2: Constitutional Voter Committee Member Recognition
```

* **4.2.1:** To become recognized as a CVC Member, an Ecosystem Actor must post a recognition submission message publicly on the Maker Governance Forum.
	* **4.2.1.1:** A recognition submission message must contain either: A) A list of cryptographic signatures from an existing CVC's members that represents a successful vote to onboard the Ecosystem Actor as a member of that CVC; or B) A clearly stated intention to form a new CVC.**
	* **4.2.1.2:** A recognition submission message must be be cryptographically signed by an Ethereum address containing at least 10 MKR.
	* **4.2.1.3:** A recognition submission message must use the template described in *4.2.1.4*.
	* **4.2.1.4:**
'''
Title: CVC Member Recognition submission
CVC member recognition submission
[Ethereum address]
[Cryptographic signature of message]
'''

> * **4.2.2:** The Arbitration Facilitators must maintain the list of CVC Members is contained in *4.2.2.1A*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **4.2.2:** The Arbitration Facilitators must maintain the list of CVC Members contained in *4.2.2.1A*.
```

	* **4.2.2.1A:**
	
    ¤¤¤

    List of CVC members:
      * N/A

    ¤¤¤

> * **4.2.3:** The Arbitration Facilitators must unrecognize any CVC Member that has not maintained at least 10 MKR in their recognized ethereum address as soon as they become aware of this.
> 	* **4.2.3.1:** Unrecognized CVC Members votes are not counted in any CVC decision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **4.2.3:** The Arbitration Facilitators must unrecognize any CVC Member that has not maintained at least 10 MKR in their recognized Ethereum address as soon as they become aware of this.
  * **4.2.3.1:** Unrecognized CVC Members' votes are not counted in any CVC decision.
```

##### 4.3 CVC Requirements
A CVC must fulfil the following requirements. The consequences of not doing so are described in *4.4*.
* **4.3.1:** Every quarter, a CVC must produce a Scope Framework Position Document for each of the 12 Scopes.  
	* **4.3.1.1:** A Scope Framework Position Document must describe edits to the current Scope Framework. 
	* **4.3.1.2:** A Scope Framework Position Document must be ratified via a CVC Decision as described in *4.5*.

* **4.3.2:** Every quarter, a CVC must produce a Governance Strategy Position Document.  

> 	* **4.3.2.1:** A Governance Strategy Position Document must provide general guidelines and values that can inform the voting behavior for Constitutional Delegates following the CVCs Governance Strategy across different situations.
> 	* **4.3.2.2:** A Governance Strategy Position Document must also include the name, short description and full description of the CVC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* **4.3.2.1:** A Governance Strategy Position Document must provide general guidelines and values that can inform the voting behavior for Constitutional Delegates following the CVC's Governance Strategy across different situations.
	* **4.3.2.2:** A Governance Strategy Position Document must also include the name, short description, and full description of the CVC.
```

	* **4.3.2.3:** A Governance Strategy Position Document must be ratified via a CVC Decision as described in *4.5*.

* **4.3.3:** Every quarter, a CVC must hold 12 real-time Subcommittee meetings, one for each of the 12 Scopes.
	* **4.3.3.1:** The first twelve weeks in each quarter are each designated the ‘Scope Focus Week’ for a different scope, based on its Scope Framework ID.
	* **4.3.3.2:** Scope Framework IDs are as follows:

| ID | Scope                       |
|----|-----------------------------|
|  1 | Stability and Liquidity     |
|  2 | Decentralized Collateral    |
|  3 | Real World Asset Collateral |
|  4 | Ecosystem                   |
|  5 | Protocol Engineering        |
|  6 | Growth                      |
|  7 | Physical Resilience         |
|  8 | Interface                   |
|  9 | Infrastructure              |
| 10 | Finance                     |
| 11 | Arbitration                 |
| 12 | Governance Security.        |

> ##### 4.4: CVC management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### 4.4: CVC Management
```

* **4.5.4:** The available CVC Decisions are detailed in the subelements of this clause.
	* **4.5.3.1:** *Adding a CVC Member*. A majority vote-weight of existing CVC Members can onboard a new CVC Member.
	* **4.5.3.2:** *Removing CVC Member*. A majority vote-weight of existing CVC Members can remove a CVC Member.
	* **4.5.3.3:** *Communication infrastructure moderation rights management*. A majority vote-weight of CVC Members can add or remove one or more moderators for one or more platforms.
	* **4.5.3.4:** *Scheduling Subcommittee Meeting*. A majority vote-weight of CVC Members can schedule the time of a Subcommittee Meeting.
	* **4.5.3.5:** *Ratifying Position Paper*. A majority vote-weight of CVC Members can ratify a Position Paper that has been publicly posted to the Maker Governance Forum.
	* **4.5.3.6:** *CD rejection*. A majority vote-weight of CVC Members can reject a CD.
	* **4.5.5.7:** *CVC Split*. 25% of the CVC Member vote-weight can initiate a CVC Split. A second vote then occurs where all CVC Members can choose to join the split. If the split gains a majority of vote-weight, it will take over the name and CD followers.

> ##### 4.6: CVC Member participation rewards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### 4.6: CVC Member Participation Rewards
```

##### 5.2: Recognition of Constitutional Delegates

> * **5.2.1:** Constitutional Delegates must be recognized by the Arbitration Facilitators if they fulfil the following requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **5.2.1:** Constitutional Delegates must be recognized by the Arbitration Facilitators if they fulfill the following requirements:
```

	* **5.2.1.1:** An Ecosystem Actor must publicly post a CD Recognition Submission message on the Maker Governance Forum.

> 	* **5.2.1.2:** An Ecosystem Actor must deploy exactly 2 Protocol Delegation System smart contracts, and specify which CVC Governance Strategy each of them follow as part of the submission message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* **5.2.1.2:** An Ecosystem Actor must deploy exactly 2 Protocol Delegation System smart contracts and specify which CVC Governance Strategy each of them follows as part of the submission message.
```

[Ethereum address of Delegation Contract 2]:[Followed CVC 2]
[Cryptographic signature of message]
```

> * **5.2.2:** A Constitutional Delegate must maintain a minimum level of activity, or lose its recognition as a Constitutional Delegate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **5.2.2:** A Constitutional Delegate must maintain a minimum level of activity or lose their recognition as a Constitutional Delegate
```

> 	* **5.2.2.1:** A CD must keep a minimum voting activity of 75% participation in all votes on average.
> 	* **5.2.2.2:** A CD must keep a minimum communication activity of having provided comments for 75% of all votes on average.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* **5.2.2.1:** A CD must maintain a minimum voting activity of 75% participation in all votes on average.
	* **5.2.2.2:** A CD must maintain a minimum communication activity, having provided comments for 75% of all votes on average.
```

> * **5.2.3:** A Constitutional Delegate must adhere to the requirements below, or lose its recognition as both a Constitutional Delegate and a Constitutional Conserver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **5.2.3:** A Constitutional Delegate must adhere to the requirements below or lose their recognition as both a Constitutional Delegate and a Constitutional Conserver.
```

    ¤¤¤

> ##### 5.3: Constitutional Delegate actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### 5.3: Constitutional Delegate Actions
```

	* **5.3.1.1:** CDs may switch to a new Governance Strategy by posting a message that specifies a new delegate contract and a new CVC strategy to follow. 

* **5.3.2:** The Arbitration Facilitators must ensure the results of any Constitutional Delegate action are represented on the Easy Governance Frontend.

##### 5.4: Constitutional Delegate income management

The top 14 CDs that have the highest amount of combined MKR delegated to their delegate contracts, and meet minimum requirements, are eligible to receive CD income. There are two levels of CD income: Prime Constitutional Delegates (PCDs) and Reserve Constitutional Delegates (RCDs).

* **5.4.1:** Prime Constitutional Delegates (PCDs)
	* **5.4.1.1:** The top 7 qualifying CDs by number of combined MKR delegated to their delegate contracts are the PCDs.
	* **5.4.1.2:** CDs must participate in at least 16 CVC Subcommittee Meetings per month to qualify as PCDs.
	* **5.4.1.3:** The 7 PCD slots share a total of 2000 MKR per year amongst them, equivalent to 285.7 MKR per year for each PCD, or 23.8 MKR per month for each PCD.

* **5.4.2:** Reserve Constitutional Delegates (RCDs)

> 	* **5.4.2.1:** The top 7 qualifying CDs that are not PCDs by number of combined MKR delegated to their delegate contracts are the RCDs.
> 	* **5.4.2.2:** CDs must participate in at least 4 CVC Subcommittee Meetings per month to qualify as RCDs.
> 	* **5.4.2.3:** The 7 RCD slots share a total of 500 MKR per year amongst them, equivalent to 71.4 MKR per year for each RCD, or 5.95 MKR per month for each RCD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* **5.4.2.1:** The top 7 qualifying CDs that are not PCDs, based on the aggregate amount of MKR delegated to their delegate contracts, are the RCDs.
	* **5.4.2.2:** To qualify as RCDs, CDs must participate in at least 4 CVC Subcommittee Meetings per month.
	* **5.4.2.3:** The 7 RCD slots share a total of 500 MKR per year, equivalent to 71.4 MKR per year for each RCD, or 5.95 MKR per month for each RCD.
```

* **5.4.3:** CD income payouts are modified by voting activity metrics for votes taking place since they were Recognized, and in the last 12 months.
	* **5.4.3.1:** If a CD has voted in less than 95% of votes, they receive a reduced amount of CD income.
	* **5.4.3.2:** The reduction in income is proportionally linear until it reaches 0 CD income at 75% voting activity.
	* **5.4.3.3:** If a CD falls below 75% voting activity, it receives no CD income.

> * **5.4.4:** CD income payouts are modified by communication metrics for votes taking place since they were Recognized, and in the last 12 months.
> 	* **5.4.4.1:** To meet the communication requirement for a given vote, CDs must write an explanation of their vote that ties it to their Governance Strategy and their independent strategy.
> 	* **5.4.4.2:** If the CD meets the communication requirement on less than 95% of votes, they receive a reduced amount of CD income.
> 	* **5.4.4.3:** The reduction in income is proportionally linear until it reaches 0 CD income at 75% communication activity.
> 	* **5.4.4.4:** If a CD falls below 75% communication activity, it receives no CD income.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **5.4.4:** CD income payouts are adjusted based on communication metrics for votes occurring since they were recognized and within the last 12 months.
	* **5.4.4.1:** If a CD meets the communication requirement for less than 95% of votes, they receive a reduced CD income.
	* **5.4.4.2:** The income reduction is proportionally linear until it reaches 0 CD income at 75% communication activity.
	* **5.4.4.3:** The reduction in income is proportionally linear, reaching 0 CD income at 75% communication activity.
	* **5.4.4.4:** If a CD's communication activity falls below 75%, they receive no CD income.
```

> * **5.4.5:** Payout of CD income is done monthly by the Arbitration Facilitators bundling MKR payments into an Executive Vote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **5.4.5:** CD income payouts are made monthly by the Arbitration Facilitators, who bundle MKR payments into an Executive Vote.
```

#### 6: Core Units and Facilitators

##### 6.1: Core Units and Facilitator Management

> During the pregame the arbitration scope manages and provides the budget for Core Units and Facilitators, while designating their responsible scopes. The role of Arbitration Facilitators is further defined in MIP113c3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the pregame, the Arbitration Scope manages and provides the budget for Core Units and Facilitators, while designating their responsible Scopes. The role of Arbitration Facilitators is further defined in MIP113c3.
```
